Helen, I'm Dr. Jonathan Barker, pastor here at Amazing Grace Baptist Church in Mount area, North Carolina.
I would like to personally thank you for taking out time today to tune in to our preaching podcast.
We hope that this message will be a great encouragement to your heart today.
Hebrews, chapter number seven, let's stand in honor and reverence for the reading of God's word.
And I want you to put your finger there.
And then I want you to go to the book of John chapter number three.
And I'll read in Hebrews first, and then we're gonna go to John chapter number three.
And the reason I told you Hebrews first is because you probably had a little more trouble finding Hebrews.
Then you will the book of John, amen.
And I hope you're enjoying.
If you're going through the 21 days, the first 21 days of the year with us with the Daniel fast, we're in the book of John reading the gospel of John.
And chapter 18, man, we closed out.
If you haven't read chapter 18 yet, you will today.
And things are looking a little dim right now.
Peter's denied the Lord.
They've got him arrested, but I know what.
That's not the end of the book.
Amen.
Chapter 19, 20, and 21 is on the way.
And I've enjoyed studying the book of John and reading to it these first 21 days.
Hebrews chapter number seven and look with me in verse 25.
Hebrews chapter number seven verse 25 says this.
wherefore he is able also to save the Alma to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveeth to make intercession for them.
Know what he said in the beginning of it, wherefore he is able to save the Alma to the uttermost.
Go with me to John chapter number three, and I'll pick up reading in verse number one of John chapter number three today.
The Bible said the, John
chapter three verse number one.
There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.
The same came to Jesus by night and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God.
For no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him.
Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, or truthfully, truthfully, I'm not changing the Bible.
That's just the meaning of the word.
Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again.
He cannot see the kingdom of God.
Nicodemus, saith unto him.
How can a man be born when he is old?
Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb?
and be born, Jesus answered fairly, fairly, I say unto thee, except a man be born of the water and of the spirit, he cannot enter in unto the kingdom of God, that which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit.
Marvel not that I said unto thee, you must be
born again.
You must be born again.
Now, the book of Hebrews tells us that he is able to save them to the uttermost.
I want to begin a new series this morning and deal with it for the next seven or eight Sunday mornings on.
I know a man who can.
I know a man who can this morning.
I want to preach on this thought.
I know a man who can save.
I know a man who can say, Father, I love you today.
You know the very need of the service and I pray God that thy will would be done.
God, I pray that if there's any who lost God that you would save them today.
God bring back thy remembrance, the things that we've studied.
God, I pray Lord that you would help us today is only you can.
In Jesus name, amen and amen.
You can be seated today.
Get on the talk to you about the thought of I know a man
man who can't.
I know a man number one this morning who can save a man.
I know a man who can say in this passage in John chapter number three it is detailing the conversation between the Lord Jesus and Nicodemus.
The Lord says very plainly that he can come into this world or that he came into this world to provide salvation.
Now watch the
for all men.
For all men, can I say to you today, I'm glad that we're serving God that is interested in saving everyone.
I'm glad that we're not serving God that just says I will save just this elect few, but he says that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.
Amen.
We're serving a whosoever
God today.
The matter of salvation is of vital importance to every person underneath the sound of my voice today.
And throughout the entire world, as far as that goes, you see what you do about the subject of salvation.
We'll determine
where you ultimately spend eternity at.
Can I say this to you this morning, eternity will be spent in one of two places.
It'll either be spent in heaven or it'll be spent in hell.
What separates those from going to heaven and those going to hell is one simple word and that is the word salvage.
Matter of fact, in verse 17, the Bible said to us in John
chapter number three, for God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be what might be saved.
So why did God send Jesus into the world?
He sent him here so that we could be saved.
We often use the word in our sermons or in our testimonies, but for those who are not saved or may not understand
meaning of that.
What does it mean?
Well, the word saved right here comes from the Greek word.
That is so does so.
And if I could put it real simple, here's a couple of things it means.
It means to save one from injury or peril.
It means to save a suffering one.
That is one suffering from disease to make well heal restore to hell.
It means to preserve one who is in
danger of destruction.
It means to save or to rescue.
It also means to save in the technical or biblical sense.
And here's what it means in that.
It means to deliver from the penalties of the judgment of God.
It means to save from the evils which obstruct the reception of God's deliverance.
What does it mean?
It means to be us.
That without God and salvation, you were lost and on the road to hell.
But he wants to rescue you from that.
He wants to pull you out of that.
He's not interested in you going to hell.
He wants to save you.
man in his natural state.
According to Romans chapter number three is a center when he came into this world.
He arrived in this world already a center.
Can I just say something to you from the youngest baby in this room today to the oldest individual in this room today.
We was all born a center.
Every one of us was born a center.
You say, well, you know, man, my baby's not a sinner.
I'll give you a quick illustration.
Madeline played the piano just a second ago.
That's our oldest daughter.
And I remember whenever Madeline was born, we thought she was just perfect.
And Mason still thinks that, but give him just a few more months of marriage.
But we thought, man, she was just perfect.
She could do nothing wrong.
And I'll never forget, we got her home.
And whenever you get home, you know, they don't send you home with an instruction manual.
I don't know about y'all, but I started looking for the warranty manual.
It's just 90 days, same as cash.
Come here a minute and I'll illustrate it more and you'll agree with me.
You remember that first time when they didn't want to go to sleep at night and it didn't matter what you done, they screamed their head off.
Y'all remember, Justin's going to be honest this morning.
And you know what you done?
You went in there, you tried to figure out what was wrong.
And finally you end up getting them up and putting a passe in their mouth or a bottle in their mouth or giving them something to eat.
And here's what they do.
You know what I'm talking about, don't you?
You know what that baby just done?
It just lied.
because it screamed at the top of its lungs saying something was wrong.
But when mom or daddy got it and put a bottle in its mouth, it was fine.
You know what I mean?
Tell you what he was doing?
It was lying.
You know what I mean?
Tell you the reason it was lying because it's born a liar.
Nobody ever told you how to lie or I hope they did.
Let me back up and rephrase that.
Nobody should have ever taught you how to lie.
Give me, tell you the reason why, because you're naturally born a sinner.
That's just the way it is.
David said that he was shaping in iniquity.
Think about this.
Unless a person is saved, they will die in their sin and spend eternity in a place called hell forever separated from the presence of an Almighty God.
Why?
Because the Bible said this, for the wages of sin is a day.
Oh, but I'm glad that he didn't stop there.
He said, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
Yes, we may be born a sinners and hear me this morning.
They may be a time in our life.
If you haven't been saved yet, hope that you was still lost and on the road to hell.
Oh, but aren't you thankful that God loved us enough that he sent his son into the world, not to condemn us.
Man, we quote John 3 16 so much and it's powerful.
But I'm telling you to me, verse 17 is just as powerful if not more powerful than verse 16 because it tells me the reason that Jesus came into the world.
It was not the condemned us, but it was to save us from a place called hell.
Here's the question that is often asked, is God really able to save our soul?
That is, if you follow what the Bible says and accept his plan of salvation, can God truly save and keep you saved?
Can I just answer a real sample in one word?
Yep.
He's sure he is.
Now, I needed more than two A-mans on that.
If you believe that God is able to do that, then you should have said, Amen.
Yes, he's able to.
Here's what I want to preach to you about for just a minute.
I know a man who can save.
I know a man who can say, I don't know your spiritual condition setting here today.
There's one person that I know for sure that is saved today.
And let me tell you who that is.
That is me.
I know that I know that I know that I'm saved.
Now there's others that I believe they're saved.
I believe my wife saved all three of my girls in just saying, by their testimony, I believe that they're saved.
But only you and God truly know whether or not you're saved.
Let me show you two three things.
Number one, why is God able to save?
Well, let me show you two three.
Number one, there's God's promise to save.
God made a promise to save.
Can I say something about that promise?
It's an old promise.
The plan of salvation is not something new.
Now, I don't have anything against some new things.
Thank God for indoor plumbing.
Somebody holler a man right there.
We was sitting at the hospital on Thursday with some of our good friends in.
We began to talk back and forth and one of them speaks in the building off a grid cabin.
And she said, we're even going to have an outpass.
And I said, well, more power to you.
But there are some things that
People are coming up with in their mind today.
That's just a bunch of nonsense.
I tell you something about the promise of God to save you.
It's not something new that's just come about.
It's not just something that we've derived off of artificial intelligence.
No, it's an old promise.
In the beginning, when God made man in his own image, and man decided to go against God and see him, God made a promise to even
in the garden when he said this.
I'll put him to tea between thee and the woman in between thy seed and her seed.
It shall bruise thy head and thou shalt bruise his heel.
What is he talking about?
He's talking about the Lord Jesus Christ.
The whole Calvary was going to bruise the head of the serpent.
What did he say in Revelation?
He said this, the lamb slain before the foundation of the world.
What
He's saying, first Peter won.
He said, who barely was foreordained before the foundation of the world.
Salvation, God's promise of salvation.
It's an old promise.
These verses tell us that even before there was a sinner to save, before there was even a sin to cleanse, that the Lord had already hallowed who formulated a plan to redeem the sinner.
He hears his plan.
That is an old plan because sin is old and God.
But before sin was ever started, made a promise to take care.
of the sin problem that we have.
No, I would say this, it's an old promise, but think about this, it's an ongoing promise.
It's not just old, it's ongoing.
It's ongoing.
while God's promise is older than the world and even older than mankind, it still has all the power of the Almighty behind it.
What did the Bible say in John chapter number five?
He said, very, very, I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me half everlasting life and shall not come into condemnation, but his past from death until I, it's an ongoing promise.
What did he say?
Whosoever is a thirst, let him come drink of the water of life freely.
What did he say for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, shall be saved.
It's an on-going promise today.
Yes, it's an old promise.
Oh, but I'm glad that if you're sitting here today and you're lost and on the road to hell, this promise is an on-going promise.
And he's interested in you.
Oh, yes, it's an old promise.
It's an ongoing promise, but think about this.
It's an open promise.
It's an, oh, you said, preach what he mean by that.
God's promise is salvation.
It's not limited to a select few, but it is a promise extended to all people.
I've already said this.
Some of this, but let me say it again.
He said in Revelation 22, and the Spirit and the bride say, come and let him that hearth say, come and let him that is the first come and whosoever we'll let him take of the water of life freely.
Here's what he said in John 637, all that the Father giveth me shall come to me and him that cometh to me.
I will in no wise cast them out.
You say, preacher, you don't know my life.
You don't know who I am.
You don't know my story.
You don't know where I've been.
You don't know what I've done.
Hear me and hear me well.
I don't have to know your life.
I don't have to know your story.
I don't have to know where you've been and what you've done.
But I do know this, that if you fit into whosoever and you're here today and you're breathing today, it don't matter where you've been.
It don't matter what you've done.
It don't matter what your story is.
Hona, he'll far away.
a student-old rugged cross, and Jesus is interested in you today.
It's an open promise.
It's whoever.
You know what that means?
Whoever.
Oh, yes.
I'm telling you, if I didn't believe in the open promise of God, I wouldn't preach.
I wouldn't give my life to the ministry.
You might as well, hollering man.
How in a few weeks ago or a month or so ago, we wouldn't been in Mexico preaching.
You know, we change the reason we do what we do.
It's because God does love the whole world.
And God will save who so ever will today.
So number one, I see God's promise to say, but number two, this is really important right here.
I see God's power to say.
It's one thing to promise something.
It's another thing to perform on the promise.
I mean, Brother Rodney can promise me that in the morning at five o'clock, he's going to meet me at the gym and run three miles with me.
But the power to perform that promise or the, the, the, um, discipline to, it's, let me just say he ain't coming.
He ain't, are you going to meet that brother Rodney?
What if I buy you breakfast afterwards?
He ain't coming.
He can promise me, Holy wants to, but you know what?
I'm going to go ahead and start my workout before he gets there.
Let me tell you the reason why.
He ain't coming.
Let me tell you something.
God said, I'll do something and he's got the power to do it.
He's got the power to do it.
You know what you may have, man, we could talk about, we could, I'll just give you this illustration.
here a year or so ago, I got a buddy that had been coming around the house quite a bit.
I'm not going to call him names.
He had been coming around the house quite a bit and he called me and he said, I got a ticket.
I said, you did?
He said, yeah, I said, what was you doing?
Blah, blah, blah.
And I said, there ain't nothing I can do.
I make a phone calls.
I realized I didn't have the power to do it, but I knew somebody that did have the power.
If they wanted to help, they could.
Don't you listen to me this morning?
I can't do nothing to save you, but I know somebody's got that's got the power.
I know he's got it.
You say what?
All power is given unto him.
I just tell you that.
You say, what's that mean?
I mean, they're bit of it.
The power to do it.
He has the power to call the center.
Watch this.
Ephesians 2 said this, and you have to be quick and who were dead in trespassing of sin.
They possess no spiritual life and are unable to approach God on their own.
Hebrews 3.11 said, there is none that understands it.
There's none that seeketh after God.
The only way the sinner can be saved is for him to be called by God.
What did he say in John 6?
And he said, therefore, said, I unto you, that no man can come into me except he were given unto him by my father.
Salvation is always originated in the mind of God and it's God that calls the sinner.
So pre-trial went to church because he wanted to be saved.
Well, why'd you want to be saved?
I just woke up one morning realizing things and I was doing what I'm right and the life I was living wasn't right.
There had to be something better and I went to church and heard somebody preach and I got saved.
So I went looking for God that morning.
That's the reason I got saved.
You may have went looking for God that morning and that may have been the reason that you got saved.
But show me to you the reason you woke up that morning and thought about God because God was the one that called you.
God was the one that exposed your sin.
It all goes back to him.
He has the power to call you.
He has the power to
Oh, yeah, he just don't make a promise.
He's got the power to perform it.
He has the power to convert you when a center places their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ for salvation.
God does a work of grace so powerful in their life that it cannot be explained in human terms.
Think of such profound spiritual nature, take place, and it boggles the mind of the unsaved, how can an individual go from living to life like the us, but the living to life like the us.
Here's the reason they can't, because of the power of an Almighty God that called them and converted them.
Oh yes, all sin is immediately and completely forgiven.
According to 1 John 1 9, the sinner is delivered from sin.
Of the sinner is delivered from the power of sin.
And the penalty of sin.
And thank God will one day get to heaven and be delivered from the very presence of sin.
Oh yes, the sinner becomes a joy and hair with Christ.
Think about a few that Christ changed.
You remember Acts chapter number seven?
Acts chapter number seven, I got to hurry.
And Acts chapter number seven, there was a man being stoned to death by the name of Stephen.
Y'all remember that?
The first martyr of the New Testament.
And while he was being stoned to death, there was another man that consented to the stoning of Stephen.
And it was a man by the name of Saul.
man by the name of Saul.
He's going to be converted to Paul in just a couple of chapters, but in chapter number seven, his name is Saul.
And you know what, Saul done.
Saul walked about and here's what he done.
He hunted down Christians and killed them.
You know, old Stephen's being stoned to death in chapter number seven.
Time out.
Let me chase this rabbit and then I'm going to come back.
All right.
Stephen says, don't lay this to their account.
You study Acts 7.
It practically says the same thing that Jesus says on the cross.
They don't know what they're doing.
Forgive them.
You know what happened that day?
There was a young man by the name of Saul that was there and heard the words of Stephen when the world was against him.
Think about that.
And what happens in chapter number nine, Saul gets saved and he's converted to the apostle of Paul that writes over half of our New Testament today had probably more of an impact on the world than anybody else besides the Lord Jesus Christ.
I wonder if Stephen would have got bitter that day in chapter number seven and falsely accused God before everybody if Saul would have ever got saved.
I'm coming back.
I'm going to pick up preaching again somewhere else here and just say, let me tell you, be careful what you say.
Be careful what you say because Stephen's words could have very well been the words that struck conviction in Saul's life.
And he was converted to chapters like be careful what you say.
But you remember that story.
He's dying and Saul is there.
Now I'm back to preaching on salvation.
Come on now.
Saul is there.
Saul's hunted down Christians.
Matter of fact, Saul ends up telling us after he's converted to Paul that he was the chief sinner.
Can you hear me tell you what happened to his life?
Oh, yes, on the road to Damascus, of the sweet holy ghost of God.
If I can just say it that way, convicted him, and trawled him, and wooed him to salvation.
And God changed his life.
He took a man that was murdering Christians and used them to influence the world.
Oh, yes.
What about Barnamaeus?
Mark chapter number 10, what about Zacchaeus in Luke chapter number 11?
What about the dying thief?
He had Luke chapter number 23.
Oh, you think about all of these things.
What about the woman at the whale in John chapter number four?
A man of her life was messed up.
She'd been married five times.
She was shacked up with a man that she was with.
And can I say something to you?
When Jesus got there, he simply looked at her and said,
something like this.
I love you and I'll change your life."
You say, it's not recorded that way.
Hear me and hear me well.
That's what he was saying that day.
I love you.
And if you just take what I've got, I'll change your life.
And you know what she done that day?
She left her water pot and went running into the city to all the men.
Why the men?
Because that's who she knew best.
That's who would see the biggest change in her life.
You know what she said?
Here's what she said, come see a man which told me all things that ever I did.
If it's not the Christ, and you know what happened?
They went running to him in one of the greatest revivals in the New Testament breaks out.
Why?
Because God has the power to save the center today.
Oh, yes.
Number one, there's God's promise to save.
Number two, there's God's power to save.
And then number three, I think we've got to establish this in the last four or five minutes.
there's God's provision to say, there's God's provision.
Oh, he promised it.
We know he has the power to, but did he provide salvation?
Well, can I just show you a couple of things, come start playing.
I would say this, he provided a precious substitute.
Hey man, and hey man again, he provided a precious
substitute when Jesus died on the cross.
He was literally taking my place in your place.
He was dying for you.
He was dying for me.
What did he say in John 1 29?
The next day, John seeeth Jesus coming under him and sayeth, behold the Lamb of God, which takeeth away the sin of the world, behold the lamb.
Why?
Because he was that lamb.
There was going to pay the ultimate sacrifice.
Amen.
When Jesus was on the cross, God transferred your sin to Jesus.
He died to pay your price on the cross.
2 Corinthians 5 says this, Prieth made him to be sinned for us who knew no sin.
Why?
So that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.
So that we might, hey, look, why was man created?
He was created to have fellowship with God.
I don't have time to go back to Genesis three.
That's the reason he was created.
He graded him in the image of God in the image of himself because he wanted to talk to him.
And because of sin and Genesis chapter number three, that fellowship was broken.
And the only way that we could ever have fellowship with God is for a sacrifice to be made.
What happened before they could talk to God in the cool of the day again?
There's coats of skin made.
They tried their own way.
They tried coats of fig leaves and they tried to do it their own way.
And God said, no, without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sin.
You know what God done that day?
God killed an animal, whatever it may have been, and made them coats of skin that day.
Blood was shed that day.
Why?
So they could be brought back in the fellowship of God.
And you let me tell you from that day forward, all the way into the New Testament, there is
And they all said this, there's one coming.
There's one coming.
He's coming by the way of a virgin.
Hey man, he's going to be born.
He's going to take away the sins of the world.
And you know what happened that night in Bethlehem?
Thank God that one that they said was coming.
He showed up.
Thank God when he went to Calvary, your sin and my sin was placed on him that day.
He provided a precious substitute, but he provided a perfect sacrifice.
It was a perfect sacrifice.
It will never have to be redone.
It was a once for all sacrifice.
Here's what he said in Hebrews chapter number nine.
For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands, which, which are the figures of the true, but into the heavens itself.
Now to appear in the presence of God for us, nor yet that he should offer himself often.
as the high priest entered into the holy places every year with the blood of others.
For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world, but now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
As it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment.
So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many.
and under them that look for Him shall appear the second time without sin unto salvation."
Can I just say this to you?
He provided a perfect sacrifice.
Jesus was, matter of fact, what did they say about it?
Here's what they said about it.
Here's what the centurion said about him at the foot of Calvary that day.
He said, truly, truly this was the Son of God.
You know what he was saying?
That's God.
Amen.
Let me tell you what that thief said.
He said, we've wrongly done.
He said, we deserve to be here.
He said, but this man, this man has done nothing to me.
Let me tell you somebody else that knew it was him and knew he was right and knew he was holy and knew he had messed up.
That was Judas.
He knew it was him, man.
He knew it was him when he sold him out.
I can tell the way you knew it was him.
It had to be him for him to sell him out.
It couldn't have been nobody else.
It had to be Jesus.
Why?
Because that's what was prophesied.
He provided a precious substitute.
He provided a perfect sacrifice.
But I say this and we'll go home.
He provided a simple plan of salvation.
He provided a plan.
Oh, he promised it and he's got the power to do it, but he provided for it.
The simple plan is this, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, shall be saved.
Then go back to one verse for God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved.
I'm going to ask you a question this morning.
Are you saved?
Sure, I'm glad that I am glad I don't have to worry about it today.
If you're not, there's a God that loves you today.
And there's a God that's provided away and has the power to do it.
Amen.
His promises he'll keep.
He said that he can't lie.
And if he said that he would save you if you'd come to him and repent of your sins and ask him into your heart, you know what he'll do?
He'll do it.
He said, preach it.
It sounds so simple.
It is.
Here's what many people try to do.
They try to straighten their life out before they get saved.
You'll never do it.
You need to tell you the reason why, because you got to send nature.
And until you die to yourself and repent of your sins and ask Christ to come into your heart and save you,
and the Holy Spirit, this whole another message, but the Holy Spirit takes up a boat in your life and moves into your life.
And you have the quicken who were dead and trespasses, he makes you alive in him.
And that Holy Spirit from that moment on walks with you, talks with you, helps you.
You're never going to get your life straightened up without him.
You just can't do it by yourself.
You can't do it.
So preach what your scripture approved that.
You ready?
Genesis three.
Adam and Eve tried to do it by theirself.
God said, no, it ain't going to happen.
You got to have me when you come to the point where you're ready for him.
And you're ready for him.
He stands with arms wide open and he'll accept you into him.
He didn't come to condemn you.
He come to save.